OSSMDOC-381: Federation configure export/import. (#35973)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-federation-config-export.adoc

////
This module included in the following assemblies:
* service_mesh/v2x/ossm-federation.adoc
////

[id="ossm-federation-config-export_{context}"]
= Exporting a service from a federated mesh

> Exporting services allows a mesh to share one or more of its services with other members of the federated mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exporting services allows a mesh to share one or more of its services with another member of the federated mesh.
```
All of these resources are specific to a single peer, hence the comment.

//Insert ExportedServiceSet diagram here

> You use an `ExportedServiceSet` resource  to declare the services that will be made available from one mesh to the federated mesh. Each service that is shared between meshes must be declared explicitly.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps search for and replace double spaces with single spaces.

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to rephrase sentences like this one using the active voice?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You use an `ExportedServiceSet` resource to declare the services from one mesh that you are making available to the federated mesh. Explicitly declare each service that is shared between meshes.
```

> You use an `ExportedServiceSet` resource to declare the services from one mesh that you are making available to the federated mesh. You must explicitly declare each service that is shared between meshes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You use an `ExportedServiceSet` resource to declare the services from one mesh that you are making available to another peer in federated mesh. You must explicitly declare each service to be shared with a peer.
```

* You can select services by namespace or name.

> * You can use wildcards to select services, for example,  to export all services in a namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can use wildcards to select services; for example, to export all the services in a namespace.
```

* You can select services for export using a label selector, which may  be global to the mesh, or scoped to a specific member namespace.

> * You can export services using an alias, for example, you can export the `foo/bar` service as `custom-ns/bar`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can export services using an alias. For example, you can export the `foo/bar` service as `custom-ns/bar`.
```

// Need non foo/bar example above

> * You can only export services that are visible to the mesh’s system namespace.  For example, a service in another namespace with an `networking.istio.io/exportTo` label set to ‘.’ would not be a candidate for export.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can only export services that are visible to the mesh’s system namespace.  For example, a service in another namespace with a `networking.istio.io/exportTo` label set to ‘.’ would not be a candidate for export.
```

The following example is for services that `red-mesh` is exporting to `green-mesh`.

.Example ExportServiceSet resource
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ExportedServiceSet
apiVersion: federation.maistra.io/v1
metadata:
  name: green-mesh
  namespace: red-mesh-system
spec:
  exportRules:
  # export ratings.mesh-x-bookinfo as ratings.bookinfo
  - type: NameSelector
    nameSelector:
      namespace: red-mesh-bookinfo
      name: red-ratings
      alias:
        namespace: bookinfo
        name: ratings
# export any service in red-mesh-bookinfo namespace with label export-service=true
  - type: LabelSelector
    labelSelector:
      namespace: red-mesh-bookinfo
      Selector:
        matchLabels:
          export-service: “true”
      alias: # exported as if they were in the bookinfo namespace
        namespace: bookinfo
----

.ExportServiceSet parameters
[options="header"]
[cols="l, a, a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Values
|metadata:
  name:
|Name of the ServiceMeshPeer you are exposing this service to.
|Must match the `name` value for the mesh in the `ServiceMeshPeer` resource.

|metadata:
  namespace:

> |Name of the project/namespace you are exporting this service from, that is, a namespace that is listed on this service mesh's member roll (SMMR) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Name of the project/namespace containing this resource (should be the system namespace for the mesh).
```

|

|spec:
  exportRules:
  -type:
|Type of rule that will govern the export for this service.  The first matching rule found for the service will be used for the export.
|`NameSelector`, `LabelSelector`

|spec:
  exportRules:
  -type: nameSelector
    NameSelector:
      namespace:
      name:
|To create a `NameSelector` rule, specify the `namespace` of the service and the `name` of the service as defined in the `Deployment` resource.
|

|spec:
  exportRules:
  -type: NameSelector
    NameSelector:
      alias:
        namespace:
        name:

> |To create a `NameSelector` rule that uses an alias for the service, after specifying the `namespace` and `name` for the service, then specify the alias for the `namespace` and the alias to be used for `name` of the service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|To create a `NameSelector` rule that uses an alias for the service, specify the `namespace` and `name` for the service. Then specify the alias for the `namespace` and the alias to be used for `name` of the service.
```

Reviewer 2: Is there some way to make this phrase simpler and clearer? While reading it, my attention snags on "after." It wonders, does after signal the position of what I'm reading relative to the first part (to create) or the last part (then specify)? For example, am I reading something like, "To change your tire, after hitting a sharp object, do such and such,"  OR "To change your timer, do a, then do b."

|To create a `LabelSelector` rule, specify the `namespace` of the service and specify the `label` defined in the `Deployment` resource. In the example above, the label is `export-service`.
|

|spec:
  exportRules:
  -type: LabelSelector
    LabelSelector:
      namespace: <exportingMesh>
      Selector:
        matchLabels:
          <label>: "true"
      alias:
        namespace:
        name:
|To create a `LabelSelector` rule that uses an alias for the service, after specifying the `namespace` and `label`, then specify the alias to be used for `name` or `namespace` of the service. In the example above, the alias is `bookinfo`.
|
|===

//PLEASE CHECK THESE EXAMPLES

.Export services with the name "ratings" from all namespaces in the red-mesh to blue-mesh.
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ExportedServiceSet
apiVersion: federation.maistra.io/v1
metadata:
  name: blue-mesh
  namespace: red-mesh-system
spec:
  exportRules:
  - type: NameSelector
    nameSelector:
      namespace: *
      name: ratings
----

.Export all services from the west-data-center namespace to both green-mesh and blue-mesh
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ExportedServiceSet
apiVersion: federation.maistra.io/v1
metadata:

>   name: green-mesh, blue-mesh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: green-mesh
```
`name` can only have a single value.  `ExportedServiceSet` must be defined for each peer.
